
https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.12/Task.html


# Tasks

The call to Task.async creates a separate process that runs the given function.
The return value of async is a task descriptor (actually a PID and a ref) that
we’ll use to identify the task later.

Once the task is running, the code continues with other work. When it wants
to get the function’s value, it calls Task.await , passing in the task descriptor.
This call waits for our background task to finish and returns its value.

Task-powered process starts its work immediatelly, doesn't serve requests, and stops when the work is done.

An Elixir task is a function that runs in the background.

```
worker = Task.async(fn -> MyMod.my_fun(20) end)
result = Task.await(worker)
```

The call to Task.async creates a separate process that runs the given function.
The return value of async is a task descriptor (actually a PID and a ref) 
that we’ll use to identify the task later.

Task.await waits for our background task to finish and returns its value.
wait for 5 seconds and then raise an exception.
or set timeout with Task.await/2.

When invoked, a new process will be created, linked and monitored by the caller. Once the task action finishes, a message will be sent to the caller with the result.
Task.await/2 is used to read the message sent by the task.
If you are using async tasks, you must await a reply as they are always sent. If you are not expecting a reply, consider using Task.start_link/1 detailed below.
async tasks link the caller and the spawned process. This means that, if the caller crashes, the task will crash too and vice-versa. This is on purpose: if the process meant to receive the result no longer exists, there is no purpose in completing the computation.
If this is not desired, you will want to use supervised tasks, described next.


Task.async links the new task to the started process.

Task.start_link/1 doesn't return result. 
Could be run under supervisor.



async((() -> any())) :: t()
Starts a task that must be awaited on.
fun must be a zero-arity anonymous function. 
This function spawns a process that is linked to and monitored by the caller process. 

A Task struct is returned containing the relevant information. 
It contains these fields:
    :pid - the PID of the task process; nil if the task does not use a task process
    :ref - the task monitor reference
    :owner - the PID of the process that started the task



await(t(), timeout()) :: term()
Awaits a task reply and returns it.
A timeout, in milliseconds or :infinity, can be given with a default value of 5000. If the timeout is exceeded, then the current process will exit.
This function can only be called once for any given task. If you want to be able to check multiple times if a long-running task has finished its computation, use yield/2 instead.


## map reduce

async_stream(Enumerable.t(), (term() -> term()), keyword()) :: Enumerable.t()

Returns a stream that runs the given function fun concurrently on each element in enumerable.

Each enumerable element is passed as argument to the given function fun and processed by its own task. The tasks will be linked to the current process, similarly to async/1.

When streamed, each task will emit {:ok, value} upon successful completion or {:exit, reason} if the caller is trapping exits. 

Напомнить, как работает Stream. Придумать пример с Enum.take.

решение уже есть, показать


## Tasks and Supervision

анонсировать что это будет в следущем уроке

Besides async/1 and await/2, tasks can also be started as part of a supervision tree and dynamically spawned on remote nodes. 
