
## Map.update

```
results =
Map.update(
  results, # look in this map
  hash, # for an entry with key
  [ path ], # if not found, store this value
  fn existing -> # else update with result of this fn
    [ path | existing ]
  end)
```

This wonderful function takes a map, a key, an initial value, and a function. 
If the key is not present in the map, then a new map is returned 
with that key and initial value added. 
If the key is present, then the corresponding value is passed to the function, 
and whatever the function returns becomes the updated value in the returned map.

TODO другие интересные функции из модуля Map


## Nested data structures

If you have a hierarchical data, you can't directly modify part of it.
You have to walk down the tree to the particular part that needs to be modified, 
and then transform it, and all its ancestors.
The result is a copy of entire model.

put_in, get_in, update_in, get_and_update_in
macroses and functions

macros need a path known at compile time

TODO примеры на базе Event


DT:

iex> report = %BugReport{ report | owner:
...>
%Customer{ report.owner | company: "PragProg" }}
%BugReport{details: "broken",
owner: %Customer{company: "PragProg", name: "Dave"},
severity: 1}
Ugly stuff! We had to update the overall bug report’s owner attribute with an
updated customer structure. This is verbose, hard to read, and error prone.

Fortunately, Elixir has a set of nested dictionary-access functions. One of
these, put_in , lets us set a value in a nested structure:
iex> put_in(report.owner.company, "PragProg")
%BugReport{details: "broken",
owner: %Customer{company: "PragProg", name: "Dave"},
severity: 1}

This isn’t magic—it’s simply a macro that generates the long-winded code
we’d have to have written otherwise.

The update_in function lets us apply a function to a value in a structure.

iex> update_in(report.owner.name, &("Mr. " <> &1))
%BugReport{details: "broken",
owner: %Customer{company: "PragProg", name: "Mr. Dave"},
severity: 1}
The other two nested access functions are get_in and get_and_update_in .

If you are using the nested accessor functions with maps or keyword lists,
you can supply the keys as atoms:

The nested accessors we’ve seen so far are macros—they operate at compile
time. As a result, they have some limitations:
• The number of keys you pass a particular call is static.
• You can’t pass the set of keys as parameters between functions.
These are a natural consequence of the way the macros bake their parameters
into code at compile time.
To overcome this, get_in , put_in , update_in , and get_and_update_in can all take a list
of keys as a separate parameter. Adding this parameter changes them from
macros to function calls, so they become dynamic.
Macro
Function
get_in no (dict, keys)
put_in (path, value) (dict, keys, value)
update_in (path, fn) (dict, keys, fn)
get_and_update_in (path, fn) (dict, keys, fn)